A liver transplant surgery for a two year old, Onyemaechi Chinedum would cost about N19 million at Yashoda Hospital In India. The boy started battling with life a few days after his birth. His mother who gave birth via a caesarian session died six days after putting to bed. At nine months of life, Chinedum was presented at Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LUTH). The hospital discovered that he was suffering from fever, abdominal distention, jaundice and vomiting. According to a medical report from LUTH, Jaundice was noticed on the sixth day of his birth. Afterwards, he would be diagnosed with infertile cholestasis, which as noted by the report is “secondary to choledochal cyst when he clocked four months.” At Babcock University Teaching Hospital (BUTH), he would later undergo a surgical intervention-cyst extension, cholecystectomy and roux-en-hepaticojejunostomy at the sixth month of life. This came with a mild resolution of symptoms for the next two months. However, a histologic report revealed liver cirrhosis in him. Following this, LUTH carried out a post-surgery on Chinedum. He was diagnosed with chronic liver disease secondary to the choledochal cyst. LUTH, conclusively, notes “Chinedum is presently on supportive medical therapy,” noting that he needs Nigerians’ financial support to undergo a liver transplant surgery. Mr Onyemaechi, the father of the boy said, Chinedum was born on April 24, 2019. “His mother put to bed through a caesarian session and she was discharged five days later. “Six days after, she started bleeding in the middle of the night. I  rushed her to Federal Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki, Ebonyi State.” Getting to the hospital, she was taken to the theatre and they needed blood but could not get any from the bank. Onyemaechi had to donate his blood for his wife to survive, but unfortunately, she died. “They said her uterus was not contacting and they needed to remove it. I consented since we have two kids,” Onyemaechi, said. Despite the 33 blood pines donated to her, his wife passed on May 3, 2019. “Before leaving the hospital, the doctor advised a circumvention test be carried out on the boy because we observed that his eyes were not white,” he said adding that the test was done. After the unfortunate event, Onyemaechi said everything was not the same for him. When he had buried his wife, he took the kids to Lagos where his parents live. “We moved to Lagos in May and when we arrived we still went to Ikorodu health centre because his eyes were still not white, the father said. “They told us he was fine, that nothing was wrong with him. “A couple of weeks, we still did not see changes. We took him to the same hospital again and we were referred to Ikorodu General Hospital where a series of tests were carried out on him.”
By the time the results came out, the hospital advised they take to a teaching hospital because they do not have a specialist to handle “obstructive jaundice case as such.” “Immediately, we left to LASUTH, but they said they don’t have a space for surgery,” Onyemaechi said, adding that the surgical team referred them gastroc unit where Vitamin K injections were administered on Chinedum.” A medical opinion was later sought from Yashoda Hospital in India. The consultants there asked who would donate liver for the boy and Onyemaechi opted for it. Onyemaechi said: “the boy has been surviving through various medical interventions, but it is now critical and the only remedy now is the transplant which costs about $39,000, according to the hospital estimation."