Christian Udeh, a native of Imo State fighting to survive chronic kidney dysfunction needs N17 million to undergo a kidney transplant at Lagos University Teaching Hospital.

Speaking from his sickbed, Christian pleaded with Nigerians to help him survive his current condition. His words were few, he could hardly speak audibly. His brother, Gideon Udeh, explained that Chiristain’s predicament began 15 years ago in the village.

“He was first diagnosed with Diabetes Mellitus and we have been managing him since then,” Gideon said, adding that propelled the family to bring Christian to Lagos for top-notch treatment. 

In Lagos, they were able to manage him for a long period of time after moving from one hospital to another. “Until 2019 when he started discharging blood from his urinary organ. We had to rush him to St Leo Catholic Hospital in Ikeja and from there they referred us to Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) from where we were advised to take him to Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) in Idi-Araba.

At LUTH he was given the adequate treatment needed to avert further discharge of blood from his urinary tract. “Subsequently, he was discharged and we left for home. That coincided with the COVID-19 lockdown. We could continue with some of his medication and he could not continue for medication treatment,” Gideon said.

When the lockdown was lifted, the family hoped Christain would continue his medical expedition to the hospital, but there was another imepdiment_ #EndSARS protest.
“During this period, his condition was getting worse. But when normalcy was restored, we went back to LUTH. By that time, his genital and legs were swollen and he was fighting hard to breathe.”

That marked his second admittance at LUTH. However, from July, 2020, Christian had been on dialysis maintenance. He was to be doing dialysis twice in a week which costs not less than N40,000. Though, the family had tried to navigate through the financial burden of the maintenance. But now they are cash-strapped.

“We have sold many properties, begged for help and everything we could do, but we are at the point where we need to call for help from Nigerians,” his brother said. “Now it is urgent for him to do a kidney transplant, according to his doctor’s advice.”

The cost implication for kidney transplant and post-operation medication is totalled at N17 million. “We have been trying to raise the money despite the weekly dialysis maintenance money we spend,” he added.

Christian before or after his dialysis maintenance would be put on oxygen. At times he would require blood to sustain the kidney damage, and the costs of these were expensive.